# The Group

So, you've just found out about the group of humans that are actively trying to destroy you. For the simplicity's sake we're gonna call them the group onwards. This concept requires some explanation since the mechanic is complex enough and mostly hidden from the player. Selecting the difficulty level will change the amount of information available to the player in the skills and knowledges window. Choosing easy difficulty will show concrete numbers, normal difficulty will use word descriptions and hard difficulty will not show anything at all.

The group is a government conspiracy dedicated to protecting the ordinary citizens and the government from all sorts of unconventional threats: extraterrestrial, paranormal, Mythos, etc. The main game parameter of the group is "priority". That is the priority of parasite threat. Since there are a lot of other threats that the group has to deal with and its resources are limited (contrary to popular belief ;)), the priority is low at start. Right from the beginning of the game some of player actions will raise the priority. The examples of such actions are: someone sees parasite and alerts the police, body with anomalies was found or the former host runs away and tells everybody that he or she was possessed by an alien creature. The severity of each action is different but the priority raises.

The priority determines the level of the team of agents that the group will task with the parasite problem. At the beginning of the game the player has some downtime until the team is spawned and each team wipe will also result in downtime. Once the team is activated, its members start investigating the weird phenomena and occurences and instead of raising the group priority, the described player actions will count towards decreasing the distance between the team and the player. The longer the time the player spends in a given area, the more is the chance of one of the team members spawning around. Once the team member sees the player, the following message will be shown in a message log: "You feel someone watching you." This means that one of the civilians currently on the screen is the team member. Team members always look like civilians (I might add some variations later).

At this point the best thing to do is to leave the area. If the team member is not alerted after seeing the player and despawns, this counts as evasion. Evading team members raises the distance to the team a little. Once the distance is raised to a large number, the team is deactivated, the group priority is decreased and the downtime starts. Basically, the threat is considered to be low by the group and it forgets about the parasite for some time. Then again, you're free to attack the team member or possess him or her. Be prepared for some blackops backup, though. Killing the team member reduces the active team size and increases the group priority. Wiping the whole team out still gives you some downtime but decreases the starting distance of the next team.

Oh yeah, did I mention that the distance decreases automatically with each game turn according to the team level? Well, it does. Once the distance is sufficiently low, the team will discover one of the habitats. At this point the team will make an ambush for the player. They will wait for some time and then just burn everything cowboy style. Destruction of the habitat is a deeply traumatic event for the parasite and reduces its energy permanently while having more temporary drawbacks. If the player walks into the ambush, the fight starts. Player needs to survive for three turns until he can leave the ambushed habitat. Leaving the habitat will also result in its destruction. The only positive thing about this event is that it will increase the team distance giving the player some breathing room. Killing the ambushers, while theoretically possible at some future point (for example, by exploiting some yet unknown bugs) will still result in habitat destruction. Note that once all the habitats are gone, the logic stays the same, except the next ambush will spawn right on the city streets and ambush evasion will result in a smalled downtime.

Have fun!
